terraform/ec2/README.md, before:

# NC Soccer Hudson - Match Analysis Agent Deployment

This directory contains the Terraform configuration to deploy the NC Soccer Hudson - Match Analysis Agent to AWS EC2.

## Prerequisites

1. AWS CLI installed and configured with appropriate credentials
2. Terraform installed (version >= 1.0.0)
3. An SSH key pair created in AWS (default name: `ncsoccer-key`)
4. A domain name (either new or existing in Route 53)
5. S3 bucket with your application data

## Deployment Architecture

The deployment includes:

1. **EC2 Instance**: Amazon Linux 2 with t2.micro instance type (free tier eligible)
2. **Security Group**: Allows incoming traffic on ports 80 (HTTP), 443 (HTTPS), and 22 (SSH)
3. **Software Stack**:
   - Docker for containerization
   - Nginx as a reverse proxy with basic authentication and SSL/TLS
   - Application deployed as a Docker container
   - Let's Encrypt for SSL certificate management
4. **Data Management**:
   - AWS IAM Role with permissions to access S3 data
   - Automatic syncing of data from S3 to the application
5. **Domain & SSL**:
   - Route 53 for DNS management
   - Let's Encrypt certificates for HTTPS
   - Automatic certificate renewal

This architecture ensures compatibility across different environments and provides security through:
- Using Docker to encapsulate the application and its dependencies
- Ensuring Python version compatibility (Python 3.11 in the container)
- Simplifying installation of complex dependencies
- Enabling HTTPS with free, auto-renewing certificates
- IAM-restricted access to data sources

## Deployment Steps

### 1. Create `terraform.tfvars` file

Create a `terraform.tfvars` file with the required variables:

```hcl
# Your SSH key pair name in AWS
key_name = "ncsoccer-key"

# Password for Nginx basic authentication
basic_auth_password = "your-secure-password-here"

# Anthropic API key
anthropic_api_key = "your-anthropic-api-key-here"

# Domain configuration
domain_name = "example.com"
create_new_domain = false  # Set to true if you want Terraform to create the Route 53 zone
admin_email = "admin@example.com"

# S3 data configuration
s3_data_bucket = "your-data-bucket-name"
s3_data_path = "data"  # Path within the bucket
```

### 2. Initialize Terraform

```bash
terraform init
```

### 3. Deploy the Infrastructure

```bash
terraform apply
```

When prompted, type `yes` to confirm the deployment.

### 4. Access Your Application

After the deployment is complete, Terraform will output:
- The public IP address of your EC2 instance
- The public DNS name
- The HTTPS URL to access your application
- The domain name configured

Your application will be accessible at the provided HTTPS URL with basic authentication:
- Username: `ncsoccer`
- Password: The value you set for `basic_auth_password` in your `terraform.tfvars` file

## Domain Configuration Options

### Using an Existing Domain

If you already have a domain registered in Route 53:
1. Set `domain_name` to your domain (e.g., "example.com")
2. Set `create_new_domain` to `false`

### Creating a New Domain

If you want Terraform to create a new hosted zone:
1. Register your domain with a domain registrar
2. Set `domain_name` to your domain
3. Set `create_new_domain` to `true`
4. After deployment, update your domain's nameservers with your registrar using the NS records from the Route 53 hosted zone

## Data Syncing

The deployment includes automatic data syncing from your S3 bucket:

1. An IAM role is created with restricted permissions to access only your specified S3 bucket and path
2. On container startup, data is synced from S3 to the application's data directory
3. You can update the S3 data and redeploy to refresh the application data

## SSL Certificate Management

SSL certificates are handled using Let's Encrypt:

1. During deployment, a certificate is automatically requested and validated
2. Nginx is configured to use the certificate for HTTPS
3. A cron job is set up to automatically renew the certificate before expiration
4. HTTP requests are automatically redirected to HTTPS

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter issues with the deployment, you can SSH into the instance:

```bash
ssh -i /path/to/ncsoccer-key.pem ec2-user@<public-ip-from-output>
```

Common troubleshooting steps:

1. Check Nginx status:
   ```bash
   sudo systemctl status nginx
   ```

2. Check Docker container status:
   ```bash
   sudo docker ps -a
   ```

3. View Docker container logs:
   ```bash
   sudo docker logs ncsoccer-ui
   ```

4. Check Nginx logs:
   ```bash
   sudo journalctl -u nginx
   ```

5. Check Let's Encrypt logs:
   ```bash
   sudo journalctl -u certbot
   ```

6. Check certificate status:
   ```bash
   sudo certbot certificates
   ```

7. Restart the Docker container:
   ```bash
   sudo docker restart ncsoccer-ui
   ```

8. Rebuild and restart the container if needed:
   ```bash
   cd /home/ec2-user/streamlit-app
   sudo docker build -t ncsoccer-ui -f ui/Dockerfile .
   sudo docker stop ncsoccer-ui
   sudo docker rm ncsoccer-ui
   sudo docker run -d --name ncsoccer-ui --restart unless-stopped \
     -p 8501:8501 \
     -e ANTHROPIC_API_KEY="your-api-key" \
     -e BASIC_AUTH_USERNAME=ncsoccer \
     -e BASIC_AUTH_PASSWORD="your-password" \
     -e S3_DATA_BUCKET="your-bucket" \
     -e S3_DATA_PATH="data" \
     ncsoccer-ui
   ```

## Customization

You can modify the following aspects of the deployment:

1. **Instance Type**: Change the `instance_type` parameter in `main.tf` if you need more resources.
2. **Region**: Modify the AWS region in the provider block in `main.tf`.
3. **Basic Auth Username**: Change the username in the htpasswd command and Docker run command.
4. **SSL Configuration**: Modify the SSL settings in the Nginx configuration in `main.tf`.
5. **S3 Data Path**: Change the S3 bucket and path in your `terraform.tfvars` file.

## Cleanup

To avoid incurring charges, remove the deployed resources when they are no longer needed:

```bash
terraform destroy
```

When prompted, type `yes` to confirm the destruction of resources.

Commit message:

Integrate with existing Makefile for data sync

terraform/ec2/README.md, after:

# NC Soccer Hudson - Match Analysis Agent Deployment

This directory contains the Terraform configuration to deploy the NC Soccer Hudson - Match Analysis Agent to AWS EC2.

## Prerequisites

1. AWS CLI installed and configured with appropriate credentials
2. Terraform installed (version >= 1.0.0)
3. An SSH key pair created in AWS (default name: `ncsoccer-key`)
4. A domain name (either new or existing in Route 53)
5. S3 bucket with your application data

## Deployment Architecture

The deployment includes:

1. **EC2 Instance**: Amazon Linux 2 with t2.micro instance type (free tier eligible)
2. **Security Group**: Allows incoming traffic on ports 80 (HTTP), 443 (HTTPS), and 22 (SSH)
3. **Software Stack**:
   - Docker for containerization
   - Nginx as a reverse proxy with basic authentication and SSL/TLS
   - Application deployed as a Docker container
   - Let's Encrypt for SSL certificate management
4. **Data Management**:
   - AWS IAM Role with permissions to access S3 data
   - Automatic syncing of data from S3 to the application
5. **Domain & SSL**:
   - Route 53 for DNS management
   - Let's Encrypt certificates for HTTPS
   - Automatic certificate renewal

This architecture ensures compatibility across different environments and provides security through:
- Using Docker to encapsulate the application and its dependencies
- Ensuring Python version compatibility (Python 3.11 in the container)
- Simplifying installation of complex dependencies
- Enabling HTTPS with free, auto-renewing certificates
- IAM-restricted access to data sources

## Deployment Steps

### 1. Create `terraform.tfvars` file

Create a `terraform.tfvars` file with the required variables:

```hcl
# Your SSH key pair name in AWS
key_name = "ncsoccer-key"

# Password for Nginx basic authentication
basic_auth_password = "your-secure-password-here"

# Anthropic API key
anthropic_api_key = "your-anthropic-api-key-here"

# Domain configuration
domain_name = "example.com"
create_new_domain = false  # Set to true if you want Terraform to create the Route 53 zone
admin_email = "admin@example.com"

# S3 data configuration
s3_data_bucket = "your-data-bucket-name"
s3_data_path = "data"  # Path within the bucket
```

### 2. Initialize Terraform

```bash
terraform init
```

### 3. Deploy the Infrastructure

```bash
terraform apply
```

When prompted, type `yes` to confirm the deployment.

### 4. Access Your Application

After the deployment is complete, Terraform will output:
- The public IP address of your EC2 instance
- The public DNS name
- The HTTPS URL to access your application
- The domain name configured

Your application will be accessible at the provided HTTPS URL with basic authentication:
- Username: `ncsoccer`
- Password: The value you set for `basic_auth_password` in your `terraform.tfvars` file

## Domain Configuration Options

### Using an Existing Domain

If you already have a domain registered in Route 53:
1. Set `domain_name` to your domain (e.g., "example.com")
2. Set `create_new_domain` to `false`

### Creating a New Domain

If you want Terraform to create a new hosted zone:
1. Register your domain with a domain registrar
2. Set `domain_name` to your domain
3. Set `create_new_domain` to `true`
4. After deployment, update your domain's nameservers with your registrar using the NS records from the Route 53 hosted zone

## Data Syncing

The deployment includes automatic data syncing from the application's S3 bucket:

1. An IAM role is created with restricted permissions to access the S3 bucket `ncsh-app-data` and the path `data/parquet`
2. On container startup, the existing `make refresh-data` command is executed to fetch the data from S3
3. The Makefile is configured to download the parquet file from `s3://ncsh-app-data/data/parquet/data.parquet` to `analysis/data/sample.parquet`
4. The file is then copied to `data.parquet` for compatibility with the application

No additional configuration is needed for data syncing as the S3 bucket and path are hardcoded in the Makefile.

## SSL Certificate Management

SSL certificates are handled using Let's Encrypt:

1. During deployment, a certificate is automatically requested and validated
2. Nginx is configured to use the certificate for HTTPS
3. A cron job is set up to automatically renew the certificate before expiration
4. HTTP requests are automatically redirected to HTTPS

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter issues with the deployment, you can SSH into the instance:

```bash
ssh -i /path/to/ncsoccer-key.pem ec2-user@<public-ip-from-output>
```

Common troubleshooting steps:

1. Check Nginx status:
   ```bash
   sudo systemctl status nginx
   ```

2. Check Docker container status:
   ```bash
   sudo docker ps -a
   ```

3. View Docker container logs:
   ```bash
   sudo docker logs ncsoccer-ui
   ```

4. Check Nginx logs:
   ```bash
   sudo journalctl -u nginx
   ```

5. Check Let's Encrypt logs:
   ```bash
   sudo journalctl -u certbot
   ```

6. Check certificate status:
   ```bash
   sudo certbot certificates
   ```

7. Restart the Docker container:
   ```bash
   sudo docker restart ncsoccer-ui
   ```

8. Rebuild and restart the container if needed:
   ```bash
   cd /home/ec2-user/streamlit-app
   sudo docker build -t ncsoccer-ui -f ui/Dockerfile .
   sudo docker stop ncsoccer-ui
   sudo docker rm ncsoccer-ui
   sudo docker run -d --name ncsoccer-ui --restart unless-stopped \
     -p 8501:8501 \
     -e ANTHROPIC_API_KEY="your-api-key" \
     -e BASIC_AUTH_USERNAME=ncsoccer \
     -e BASIC_AUTH_PASSWORD="your-password" \
     -e S3_DATA_BUCKET="your-bucket" \
     -e S3_DATA_PATH="data" \
     ncsoccer-ui
   ```

## Customization

You can modify the following aspects of the deployment:

1. **Instance Type**: Change the `instance_type` parameter in `main.tf` if you need more resources.
2. **Region**: Modify the AWS region in the provider block in `main.tf`.
3. **Basic Auth Username**: Change the username in the htpasswd command and Docker run command.
4. **SSL Configuration**: Modify the SSL settings in the Nginx configuration in `main.tf`.
5. **S3 Data Path**: Change the S3 bucket and path in your `terraform.tfvars` file.

## Cleanup

To avoid incurring charges, remove the deployed resources when they are no longer needed:

```bash
terraform destroy
```

When prompted, type `yes` to confirm the destruction of resources.
